h1. Puppet build module

"Puppet":http://puppetlabs.com module for building tools or libraries from source if no distribution package is available.

h2. Usage (downloading source from internet)

<pre>
build::install { 'top':
  file     => 'http://www.unixtop.org/dist/top-3.7.tar.gz',
  creates  => '/usr/local/bin/top',
}
</pre>

This function will download the source of the top command, extract it and run a ./configure, make, make install for you.

h2. Usage (using locally stored or puppet module files as source for building)

<pre>
build::install { 'top':
  file     => 'puppet:///modules/your-module/top-3.7.tar.gz',
  creates  => '/usr/local/bin/top',
}
</pre>

File could be stored even in puppet module files.

<pre>
build::install { 'tomcat-apr':
  file            => '/opt/apache-tomcat/bin/tomcat-native.tar.gz',
  creates         => '/usr/local/apr/lib/libtcnative-1.so',
  buildoptions    => '--with-apr=`which apr-1-config` --with-java-home=\'/usr/lib/jvm/java-7-oracle\' --with-ssl=yes',
  extract_options => '--transform=\'s,tomcat-native-.*-src,tomcat-native,\'',
  pkg_folder      => 'tomcat-native/jni/native',
}
</pre>

This example will install Tomcat APR native library from source bundled with Tomcat package. 
p.s. paths are Ubuntu specific


h2. Optional parameters

| pkg_folder      | Name of the extracted package folder    |
| pkg_format      | Pkg-Format                              |
| pkg_extension   | Pkg-Extension                           |
| extractor_cmd   | Overwrite pre defined extract commands  |
| extract_options | Additional options to extractor tool    |
| make_cmd        | Overwrite pre defined make commands     |
| build_options   | Additional build options for configure  |
| rm_build_folder | Remove the build folder (true, false)   |
| src_cwd         | Folder where source is extracted and built. Defaults to '/usr/local/src' |

h2. Dependencies

"Puppet":http://puppetlabs.com/puppet/puppet-open-source
"puppet-common":https://github.com/puppet-modules/puppet-common
"puppet-stdlib":https://github.com/puppetlabs/puppetlabs-stdlib

h2. Note

All paths are debian/nexenta specific. Please customise it to your needs.

Copyright © 2010-2013 qutic development, released under the MIT license